# **Some Questions**

### Question 1
A. What High-Level Language had the first commercially available compiler?

B. Within 3 years, when was it made available?

C. This compiler promised three resulting advantages. Name two.

D. How long did it take to write this compiler?

### Question 2
A. Why can we say that all general purpose languages are computationally equivalent?

B. Does a compiler "stick around" while a program it compiled executes?

C. What's an advantage an interpreter has over a compiler?

D. What's an advantage a compiler has over an interpreter?

### Question 3
A. Could a REPL be created for C?
B. Justy your answer to [3]A.

### Question 4
A. What five items are required to define a finite automaton?
B. What does it mean for a finite automaton to accept a string? (Two items to mention here.)
C. What is required for a finite automaton to be deterministic? (Two items to mention here.)

### Question 5
A: Can a finite automaton accept an infinite-length string?

B: Explain why or why not.

### Question 6
A: Can a finite automaton reject an infinite-length string?

B: Explain why or why not.

### Question 7
A: What are the five fundamental regular expressions?

B: What does + mean when applied to a regular expression? (Be specific!)

C: Even though ? is not one of the 5 fundamental REs, why is it acceptable to use it when writing REs? (Be specific!)

### Question 8
**Using only the 5 Basic REs and [], ?, + Write a Regular Expression that matches...**
A: ... a C identifier.

B: ... a decimal number with a . somewhere in the middle. (That is, has digits on both sides.)

C: ... a single-line string literal.