Date: 09-22-23

# Quiz Review
## Why would compiler compile down to assembler instead of machine code?
Different architecture have different assembly language.
Assembly language across architectures are different, almost by definition.
Going to P-code, a level that is above machine code, is architecture indepedent.
It is applicable to multiple architecture, by being an abstraction of architecture concepts.
P-code is above machine code and assembly.
Assembly language is often different across architecured.

Why would compiler compile down to assembler instead of machine code?
1. To help insulate the code gen of the compiler
2. Assembler is architecture dependent. It is not portable across architectures

## What is a self-hosting compiler?
A compiler written in its own language

## What does cpp do?
It's a purely textual preprocesser

## source-to-source
A high level language translated to another separate high level language.

You cannot simply say translated to another language. Machine code is a language. Any compiler does that.

## JIT

## REPL

# Grand Masters
Donald Kanuth
Geral Gevez 

# Compilers
## Phases of Compilation
We are target code

## Program Analysis

## Lexical Analysis
Book:  
Formal Languages and their Relations to Automota
By: Hopcraft and Ulman

Certain kinds of errors are detected by distinct phases.
- target code generation errors (usually indicate internal errors in the compilers
- badly formed literals (most compilers dont let you stretch a string across two lines)
- illegal characters

Why are misspelled keywords not lexical errors?
- because it could be a valid identifier

Free form languages (C, Java) white space is meaningless unless it is inside a string literal.  
White space can also be useful to separate ambiguous tokens.
C has a token ++  
So if you have a token a++3, you probably meant postfix  

Languages with meaningful whitespace have rules that inhibit the author.

Discard comments
- some compilers take instruction from the comment
- directives in comments for the super perceptive compilers

## Tokens
A token is the basic building block of a program

## Some Generic Token Categories

## Regular Expressions (RE) ***
Empty set is not a regular expression. It is nothing.
"If you dont have an empty set as a regular expression?"
- an empty regular expression. empty. nothing.

## Regular Expressions
Notational conveniences.

Anything you write using Kleene Plus, can be wrriten with RE, so you gain nothing.

packages called regular expressions are way beyond RE when you add extensions.
Adding this other notations does extend with expressivity, and is no longer RE.
Those extensions are no longer RE, And so the theory that we have for processing RE, may or may not work on those RE.

a RE can be processed in linear and the size of the input. O(n) and n is the number of input symbols.
Why big O and not big Theta?
You can screw up on a RE on the very first character.
However, if you add extensions to RE, that convenient analysis on the time, may no longer apply.

As long as we stick to RE, we know.
some of the very common extensions in packages, change the time complexity to np complete, or even indeterminate.

Why pontificating?
You use an RE package, be aware of how the extensions affect the time complexity of processing that extension.

## Grammars and the Chomsky Language Hierarchy
Saying "more expressive", etc. is subjective
We want to make it objective to describe how the production rules change.

## [Grammars and the Chomsky Language Hierarchy]

we can encode a turing machine in a finite number of 0s and 1s. ***
If we can do that, that means every possible turing machine can be equated with a binary number, which means an integer.

there is a countably infinite number of Turing Machines. One to one correspondance with integers, Z+.

Since there is only a countable number of Turing Machines, but an uncountable number of languages, we know there are languages beyond TuringnMachines.
every known kind of computation has been shown so far to be equivalent to Turing Machines.
As humans, we do not know any computation beyond TM.
We cannot prove that there aren't computations beyond TM. 

Quantum computing cannot compute anything beyond Turing Machines.

Bottom line:
We know there are languages beyond Turing Machines. 

Recursive vs Recursively Enumerable
Recursively Enumerable will halt, or go on forever. There is no time constraint, so if it goes on forever, we don't know if it will eventually say yes or it is no and stuck in an infinite loop.

Recursive is a yes that will definitey halt.

Algorithms are guaranteed to halt