DateL 09-23-23


# Deterministic Finite Automaton (DFA)

If it has an ambiguous transition anywhere, it is still nondeterministic. It violates at least one, not both.

# Deterministic Fnite Automaton Examples

Anything that's a finite automaton can be written as a regular expression.
To go from finite automaton to RE is a bit more complicated.

"Every state must have a transition from every letter in the input alphabet." Professor disagrees. Don't clutter up your diagram with a dead state. ***

Any symbol not appearing in an edge away from a state causes an error if it is the next symbol at that state.

We will be performing DFA on the mid-term ***

Will the INTEGER_LITERAL be an example of the klaney plus? Yes

# Combining Deterministic Finite Automata

# Lexical Analysis

# Simpler Combination of DFAs

# Nondeterministic Finite Automota (NFA)

Does being non-deterministic increase the descriptive power of a Finite Automaton? ***
No! Why not?

There is a mechanical process that can convert a non-deterministic finite automaton into an **equivalent** finite automaton.

You have to remember the word equivalent. It accepts the same language.
Non-determinsitic finite automaton have the same power as deterministic finite automaton.

Non-deterministic Pushdown automaton are more powerful than deterministic pushdown automaton.

Non-deterministic turing machines have the same power as deterministic turing machines.

# Making a Regular Expression into an NFA

# Making an RE into an NFA


# Using an NFA for Lexical Scanning

# ["Guessing"]
Converting to a deterministic version, which wouldn't require guessing.


# Converting an NFA into a DFA

# NFA to DFA Example

